
                       M O T I O N   S I C K N E S S




                            S O U R C E C O D E  



 ..Oh mother.


   Here it is. What you've all been fearing of. If nothing else, this release
   shows the single most important reason why coders don't release their
   sources: it's a horrible mess. The very essence of chaos is present within
   these files.

   But it's been a long time since I wrote this stuff, and I can't be
   bothered to fix the source any further. Oh, I tried. And I failed.

   Managed to fix one bug, though. The balls in the first part are now
   in straight lines. But there are tons and tons of bugs in there. If you
   find any, keep them to yourself. Hehe.

   You need a copy of tasm and tlink to compile this. If you have those in
   your path, just executing c.bat will do.
   

 ..The history of this intro.


   Initially, motion sickness was supposed to be a java 4k intro. Written
   in pure bytecode. This was because the assembly organizing wrote in their
   webpage that DOS entries would not be allowed, so I tried my luck with
   JVM.

   Painstakingly I learned the innards of JVM and managed to write my first
   effect in pure bytecodes. Everything ran in an infinite loop inside
   the paint() method, something that should not be done I guess.. But then
   I started to write the intro, and it was hell. JVM is obviously designed
   for compilers, not humans. I've never written so many comments just to
   keep track on what variable and value goes where. And tracking bugs wasn't
   that easy, either.

   I managed to write an implementation of the first effect in this intro,
   voxels mapped onto a plane. It was... Quite slow. And time was running out.
   I started to become tired of the whole project, but then something lovely
   happened. I think it was wiba from whom the word spread out to me. One
   evening on IRC, nepa, when he still could be found on IRC, told me that
   someone had told him that DOS entries would be allowed after all. I quickly
   mailed the organizers and they responded. Yes. It was possible. They did
   not support DOS, which just meant that no sound drivers and such would be
   installed.

   So. There I was, a ton of old code at my disposal and three days before
   assembly would begin. I coded like a maniac. First 48 hours with a few
   hours of sleep in between.. But the intro still wasn't finished. There
   were some parts, but more was needed. So I grabbed an old voxel routine,
   zipped the sources together with a compiler and e-mailed those to myself.
   My idea was to continue coding at the partyplace using a friends' machine.

   Assembly. On thursday we attended boozembly. The weather wasn't exactly
   perfect, actually it started to get kind of chilly outside. I wasn't
   feeling too good and left to sleep. Some friends afterwards told me that
   I looked like a ghost, all white and so. I probably had not eaten enough.

   Anyhow, to sleep I went. And then I woke on friday with a nice hangover.

   And 12 hours to go before deadline.

   I asked Infinite for the password for his machine, downloaded the source
   and started whacking in some code. For ten hours straight at the
   partyplace. Slowly the buggy routines started to form an intro. I wrote
   some routines to generate heightmaps for the voxel routine, but they
   were not good enough. During the last hour I attempted to implement an
   idea I had, somekind of pillars going up and down using the voxel routine.
   I screwed it up and what resulted can now be seen in the intro. Strange
   how the effect that many people like the most in this intro was actually
   a fortunate mistake.

   Anyhow, it got third. And I was satisfied with it.



 ..Contact.

   mattijvesa@hotmail.com



 ... .  .. .  . . . ...  .  .    .   . .  . . .    . . . .  . .  ....  . ..

  
   Matti Vesa
   yobi / wAMMA
   19.8.2004


